README.md, before:

[![penterepTools](https://www.penterep.com/external/penterepToolsLogo.png)](https://www.penterep.com/)


## PTELASTIC

Security testing tool for identifying, fingerprinting, and exploiting vulnerabilities in Elasticsearch instances.  
The tool:
- Identifies whether or not Elasticsearch is running on a host
- Identifies whether it is running on HTTP or HTTPS
- Identifies whether or not it has authentication enabled
- Enumerates:
   - Elasticsearch version
   - Modules, their version and description
   - Installed plugins and their version
   - Users, their roles and privileges
- Tests for the following CVEs:
   - CVE-2015-5531
   - CVE-2015-1427
   - CVE-2014-3120
   - CVE-2015-3337
- Dumps:
   - Structure of indices
   - Data from indices

## Installation

```
pip install ptelastic
```

## Adding to PATH
If you're unable to invoke the script from your terminal, it's likely because it's not included in your PATH. You can resolve this issue by executing the following commands, depending on the shell you're using:

For Bash Users
```bash
echo "export PATH=\"`python3 -m site --user-base`/bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

For ZSH Users
```bash
echo "export PATH=\"`python3 -m site --user-base`/bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```

## Usage examples
```
ptelastic -u htttps://www.example.com/
```

## Options
```
   -u   --url         <url>           Connect to URL
   -ts  --tests       <test>          Specify one or more tests to perform:
                       AUTH           Elasticsearch authentication test
                       HTTPS          Elasticsearch HTTP/S test
                       IS_ELASTIC     Elasticsearch availability test

   -p   --proxy       <proxy>         Set proxy (e.g. http://127.0.0.1:8080)
   -T   --timeout     <miliseconds>   Set timeout (default 10)
   -t   --threads     <threads>       Set thread count (default 10)
   -c   --cookie      <cookie>        Set cookie
   -a   --user-agent  <a>             Set User-Agent header
   -H   --headers     <header:value>  Set custom header(s)
   -r   --redirects                   Follow redirects (default False)
   -vv  --verbose                     Enable verbose mode
   -v   --version                     Show script version and exit
   -h   --help                        Show this help message and exit
   -j   --json                        Output in JSON format


```

## Dependencies
```
ptlibs
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2025 Penterep Security s.r.o.

ptelastic is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

ptelastic is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with ptelastic. If not, see https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

## Warning

You are only allowed to run the tool against the websites which
you have been given permission to pentest. We do not accept any
responsibility for any damage/harm that this application causes to your
computer, or your network. Penterep is not responsible for any illegal
or malicious use of this code. Be Ethical!

Commit message:

PTELASTIC final version draft (#10)
* Implemented Elasticsearch data structure module

* Added arguments for specifying indexes/fields for the structure/data dump modules

* Added argument for specifying the outfile to write data dump results to

* PTELASTIC data dump module

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Fixed typos, removed commented-out code, better error handling

* Typos, unused imports

* Fixed typos, improved error handling

* Fixed typos

* Fixed typos, improved error handling

* Fixed typos

* Fixed overwriting data

* Made error handling easier

README.md, after:

[![penterepTools](https://www.penterep.com/external/penterepToolsLogo.png)](https://www.penterep.com/)


## PTELASTIC

Security testing tool for identifying, fingerprinting, and exploiting vulnerabilities in Elasticsearch instances.  
The tool:
- Identifies whether or not Elasticsearch is running on a host
- Identifies whether it is running on HTTP or HTTPS
- Identifies whether or not it has authentication enabled
- Enumerates:
   - Elasticsearch version
   - Modules, their version and description
   - Installed plugins and their version
   - Users, their roles and privileges
- Tests for the following CVEs:
   - CVE-2015-5531
   - CVE-2015-1427
   - CVE-2014-3120
   - CVE-2015-3337
   - any other CVE the host might be vulnerable to
- Dumps:
   - Structure of indices
   - Data from indices

## Installation

```
pip install ptelastic
```

## Adding to PATH
If you're unable to invoke the script from your terminal, it's likely because it's not included in your PATH. You can resolve this issue by executing the following commands, depending on the shell you're using:

For Bash Users
```bash
echo "export PATH=\"`python3 -m site --user-base`/bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

For ZSH Users
```bash
echo "export PATH=\"`python3 -m site --user-base`/bin:\$PATH\"" >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```

## Usage examples
```
ptelastic -u htttps://www.example.com/
```

## Options
```
   -u   --url         <url>           Connect to URL
   -ts  --tests       <test>          Specify one or more tests to perform:
                       AUTH           Elasticsearch authentication test
                       HTTPS          Elasticsearch HTTP/S test
                       IS_ELASTIC     Elasticsearch availability test

   -p   --proxy       <proxy>         Set proxy (e.g. http://127.0.0.1:8080)
   -T   --timeout     <miliseconds>   Set timeout (default 10)
   -t   --threads     <threads>       Set thread count (default 10)
   -c   --cookie      <cookie>        Set cookie
   -a   --user-agent  <a>             Set User-Agent header
   -H   --headers     <header:value>  Set custom header(s)
   -r   --redirects                   Follow redirects (default False)
   -vv  --verbose                     Enable verbose mode
   -v   --version                     Show script version and exit
   -h   --help                        Show this help message and exit
   -j   --json                        Output in JSON format
   -U   --user        <username>      Set user to authenticate as
   -P   --password    <password>      Set password to authenticate with
   -F   --file        </path/to/file> File to read if host is vulnerable to CVE-2015-5531 (default /etc/passwd)
   -di  --dump-index  <index1, ...>   Specify index to dump with data_dump module
   -df  --dump-field  <field, ...>    Specify fields to dump with data_dump module
   -o   --out-file    <filename>      Specify the name of the file to store structure/data dump to


```

## Dependencies
```
ptlibs
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2025 Penterep Security s.r.o.

ptelastic is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

ptelastic is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with ptelastic. If not, see https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

## Warning

You are only allowed to run the tool against the websites which
you have been given permission to pentest. We do not accept any
responsibility for any damage/harm that this application causes to your
computer, or your network. Penterep is not responsible for any illegal
or malicious use of this code. Be Ethical!
